---
template: post
slug: TODO
draft: false
socialImage: ''
title: TODO
date: 2021-10-08T14:00:00.000Z
description: TODO
category: Blog
tags:
---

## Introduction

Three years ago, I made a career shift from a software developer to a developer advocate in open source software.

In this blog post, I'll share my reflections on the transition into the developer advocate role and some musings on working in open-source, and career development.

## Getting into open source full time

Back in 2019, I was working full time as a Web3 develoepr for [Aragon](https://aragon.org/). This was a dream opportunity — for the first time I working full on open source software in a fully remote role.

Working for Aragon felt good — we were building a framework to create new blockchain-centric organisations called [DAOs](https://blog.aragon.org/what-is-a-dao/) with transparent governance. It was also technically challenging and a chance to work with a stellar and well-rounded team.

The work was fully remote and we'd have on-sites once a quarter where we'd meet to work together, do some team building activities and align on work.

On its surface, it seemed like the ideal set up. I could combine globe-trot and experiencing foreign cultures with work. But little did I know how difficult this work style is in practice.

On my first remote work trip while at Aragon to Taiwan, I found myself torn between work, logistics, and desire to explore and travel around. Finding suitable accomodation while on the move can be time consuming, likewise finding places to eat and figuring out transportation. I quickly realised that it's better for me to either travel or work.

After a couple of months of working remotely, I found myself feeling increasingly lonely. I had always been somewhat social at work and the lack of any social interaction started taking a toll on me emotionally.

The work itself was both challenging and rewarding, and as a team we got into a good cadence of delivery. Open source projects can have this quality — they give you a sense that you're part of something bigger.

I suggested reducing my working hours so as to make space for more social life but the leader wasn't flexible about part-time work. This put me in a difficult position given how much it meant to me, but finally eventuated in my leaving.

I left Aragon with the insight that I want tbuilding software "alone in cave" is not a good fit for me. 

## Foray into Developer Advocacy

While I rami jobs, I was hacking on a couple side projects and 